What's the best villager for getting
emeralds? You're probably thinking of
the Fletcher, but in most cases, it's
actually the mason. Let me prove it to
you. Fletchers are pretty good for
getting emeralds because you can sell
them sticks, and sticks are pretty easy
to get a lot of. But masons are even
better because they buy clay, and clay
is even easier to get than sticks. For
example, if you wanted a stack of
emeralds using a Fletcher, you'd need to
chop down a ton of trees, which would
take you about 5 minutes in a dense
forest. But to get a stack of emeralds
using a mason, you only need to mine a
few clay deposits, which only takes
about 4 minutes. And many villages spawn
without loads of trees nearby. But
rivers spawn everywhere, meaning there's
almost always tons of clay nearby. And
clay deposits are huge, getting you
stacks of clay per deposit instead of a
tiny bit of wood per tree. And if you
still don't believe me, to get a stack
of emeralds, you have to mine four
stacks of logs or only two and a half
stacks of clay blocks. And clay mines
faster than wood.